Weekly Posts - 3 P's

Week 9 3/23/025
Progress: This week I completed the first draft of my digital product. I also locked in a date for my client presentation.
Problems: No major problems.
Plans: I plan to continue to refine my digital product and rpepare it for a first draft submission.
Hours Estimated: 25

Week 8 3/16/2025
Progress: This week I did the final tweaks to my code, re-organized my github repo, revised my readme file, finalized the first draft of my written product, and began the outline of my digital product using the wix website builder.
Problems: No major issues this week, just working to get first drafts of all products done.
Plans: I plan to continue to work on the digital product, hoping to finalize the first draft of that by the end of next weekend. I also plan to lock in a presentation date with my client.
Hours Estimated: 14

Week 7 3/9/2025
Progress: This week I worked extensively on my written product. I was able to get most of a rough draft done, I also tweaked my data model a bit more to see if I could get it to be more accurate.
Problems: I am having issues with overfitting and not great accuracy in my data model
Plans: Next week I plan to discuss the digital product in a 1x1 meeting and finalize the inital draft of my written product.
Hours Estimated: 12

Week 6 3/3/2025
Progress: This week I added additional tool data to the powerbi dashboard, succesfully applying the python script to each dataset and adding a wear tracker for each one. I also attempted to fit an ARIMA model to see how it would work with my initial dataset I sued to develop the random tree regressor model and how it would interact with the other tool datasets. I also reformatted my github repo as well as audited my code to fit the PEP8 style guide. Alongside stylizing my code I also identified all five of my code submission snippets and completed my rough draft of that submission. Lastly, I got a start on my written product.
Problems: Something I noticed within the additional datasets for the other tools in the machining center was that some of the data includes varying bore sizes despite the callout listed in the dataset. Because the client wants a single model to fit all of the datasets and due to the nature of how these bore callouts are defined (this is manual data entry by the person who sets up the operator instructions for these boring steps), I am going to display this issue as a point of caution to the client and let them know that this must be considered when setting up the connection in powerBI. These connections will be SQL queries so they will have to set up a filter at that point. I will describe this in detail in the written product for them. 
Plans: Moving forward I plan to finish the written piece of the project before moving into the digital product and my presentations.
Hours Estimated: 12

Week 5 2/23/2025
Progress: This week I completed a majority of the data modeling work. I was able to develop a working model in VS code and get it to work in PowerBi. The model predicts the bore diameter for a single tool 10 cycles into the future, and will assign a wear rating (Normal, Moderate, Critical) to that tool based on the change in predicted bore size.
Problems: Issues that are arising now that I have information to display in PowerBI is how do I want to convey this information. I have a wear rating for one tool currently.... how many tools are there? How can I develop this portion of the dashboard to support future tools being added? Questions like that are now running through my head.
Plans: I plan to meet with my client to discuss the following: underlying work I have competed, the feasibility of running python scripts through PowerBI, and how this information is best displayed for the users that will be accessing this dashboard. Additionally, this upcoming week I would like to finalize my github repository and begin work on the supplementary portions of the capstone. 
Hours Estimated: 12

Week 4 2/15/2025
Progres: Due to delays in data requests, there was not much progress amde on the project this week as far as data work goes. I was able to secure a phone call with an engineer from the machining department next week, and I aim to inquire about tool failure/repalcement data and hopefully add that information into the final input table for the data model.
Problems: No major issues
Plans: I plan to meet with my client and the machining engineer next week to hopefully square away all of the data. I hope to receive the input dataset for the datamodel next and begin coding on that portion of the project. 
Hours Estimated: 2

Week 3 2/9/2025

Progress: This week I met with my client and was able to finalize the dashboard for the project. We also discussed the data request I had made in the previous week and found that there will be some delay in the request; however, I was provided some sample data to begin work on the data model. With this data, I was able to join everything to get close to what the input file will look like for the data model and I was able to feature engineer columns to predict when a tool head was replaced and approximately how much time had passed between tool changes. 
Problems: The big problem I had this week was the delay in the data request. My client must do all of the data pulls as they come from an internal database and she had run into multiple issues this week which resulted in delays, meaning I was not able to get as much progress done on the data model as I wouldve liked, especially coming into the working session this week.
Plans: My client and I discussed that the data should be in my inbox by February 16th and from there I plan to incorporate the feature engineering discussed and move forward with work on the data model. I believe now that I have a value for the time between tool changes I could use a more simplified model for making predictions. I beleive a regression model would work good for predicting the time until a tool change is needed, and a classification model would be useful to flag an upcoming tool change. 
Hours Estimated: Unknown

Week 2 - 2/2/2025

Progress: This week I finished 99% of the dashboard for my client, it is just missing formatting details that I will fill in with the help of my client to suit their needs. I also worked with my client to request a secondary dataset to build the time series model from.
Problems: I had no major issues this week.
Plans: I plan to continue weekly communication with my client. Next weekend during our meeting I plan to finalize the dashboard for them and also receive and discuss the new dataset for the time series model. I also plan to begin coding work on the model next weekend. 
Hours Estimated: Unknown

Week 1 - 1/25/2025

Progress: This week I received and combined all of the data from the client and have started work on the requested PowerBI dashboard.
Problems: Right off the bat I am running into some difficulties with my data, I was briefed by the client on the data that was sent to me; however now that I am looking into it more closely, it seems I am missing some cirtical information to create the dashboard at this time.
Plans: I have communicated my issues to the client, and I am working to schedule a weekly meeting with them so that we can discuss and examine the data more closely. I would like to have the dashboard portion of the project done by February 2nd so that I can begin working on the modeling portion of the project. 
Hours Estimated: Unknown

Week 
Progress:
Problems:
Plans:
Hours Estimated: